---
title: "Nintendo and Illumination's Cinematic Future: A New Era Begins"
date: 2026-04-29
slug: nintendo-illumination-cinematic-future
Tags: ["Nintendo", "Illumination", "animated movies"]
---

A new chapter in the collaboration between Nintendo and Illumination is set to unfold with the announcement of an untitled animated film scheduled for release on April 12, 2028. This exciting news comes on the heels of the massive success of the Super Mario movies, which have collectively grossed over $2 billion worldwide. The potential for a broader Nintendo cinematic universe is becoming increasingly tangible, especially with hints of a Donkey Kong spin-off in the works.

The success of the Super Mario franchise has not only revitalized interest in Nintendo's beloved characters but has also paved the way for further cinematic explorations. With the recent filing of copyright for a Donkey Kong movie and the character's prominent role in theme park expansions, it seems that Nintendo is strategically positioning itself to capitalize on its rich IP. As fans eagerly await the next installment, the question remains: what other beloved characters could join this expanding cinematic universe?

As we look ahead to 2028, the anticipation builds for what promises to be another milestone in animated storytelling. Will Nintendo and Illumination continue to captivate audiences and redefine animated films? Only time will tell.
> Original source: https://www.videogameschronicle.com/news/a-third-nintendo-illumination-movie-is-set-for-2028-according-to-universal-schedule/